Method #1:
BIOS Menu
By opening the BIOS menu and finding the Default Settings option, you can reset the BIOS directly from its menu.

To do so, follow these steps:

Restart your computer
Notice the key that you need to press at the first screen. This key opens the BIOS menu or “setup” utility.
For example, here’s how this looks like on many Dell PCs:
Dell BIOS screen showing special key options
Notice the key guide in the top-right corner.

This key is usually any of the following, depending on your computer manufacturer: Esc, Del, F2, F8, F12.



Find the option to reset the BIOS settings. This option is usually called any of the following:
Load Default
Load Fail-Safe Defaults
Load BIOS Defaults
Load Default Settings
Load Setup Default
Get Default Values


Save these changes
Exit BIOS

Method #2:

Clear the jumper
Your computer’s motherboard has a special jumper that can clear the BIOS saved settings and revert them to their original values.

By clearing the jumper, you can also reset the password for the BIOS menu.

To do so, follow these steps:

Shutdown your computer
Flip the power switch so that the computer receives no power.
Make sure you’re grounded. Static discharges can damage your computer.
On the motherboard, find a jumper that’s named like any of the following. (This jumper is usually placed near the CMOS battery.)
CLEAR CMOS
CLEAR
CLR CMOS
CLR PWD


Set the jumper to the Clear/CLR position
Power on and start your computer
Once your PC has booted, turn it back off, move the CLR jumper back to its original position. Otherwise, each time you reboot, your settings (and clock) will automatically reset!
Method #3: Replace the CMOS battery
If Method #2 above
doesn’t work (your computer doesn’t have the mentioned jumper), you can also try to remove and replace the CMOS battery. This method works if your computer has a CMOS battery. Not all motherboards have that battery. To reset the BIOS by replacing the CMOS battery, follow these steps instead:

Shutdown your computer
Remove the power cord to make sure that your computer receives no power.
Make sure you’re grounded. Static discharges can damage your computer.
Find the battery on your motherboard


Remove it. 
If the battery doesn’t move easily, stop following this method to reset the BIOS, go to Method #1 or Method #2.
Wait 5 to 10 minutes
Put the battery back in
Power on your computer

[[https://neosmart.net/wiki/reset-bios-cmos/|https://neosmart.net/wiki/reset-bios-cmos/]]